Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)

1. Java OOPs
🟢 Easy
1. Online Exam Portal (Basic)
Concepts: Inheritance, Method Overriding, Polymorphism
Story: You are building a university’s online examination portal that will be used by
thousands of students and administrators.
The portal needs two main types of users:
1. Students – log in to take exams, view results, and track progress.
2. Admin – log in to create exams, manage questions, and review student
performance.
Scenario details:
● Create a base class User with common attributes like username, password,
and a login() method.
● Derive two subclasses:
○ Student: Overrides login() to check if the student is registered and
enrolled in a course before granting access to exams.
○ Admin: Overrides login() to verify staff credentials and admin
privileges before allowing exam management.

Example run:
● A student enters the username "john123" and password. The system validates
their credentials and enrollment before showing available exams.
● An admin logs in, and the system checks both credentials and role, then shows
tools to create or manage exams.
Why it’s real-world: Almost every online learning platform (Coursera, edX, university
LMS systems) uses role-based login systems, making this a fundamental OOPS
modeling example.

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)

🟡 Moderate
2. Parking Lot Ticketing System
Concepts: Java OOPs — Inheritance, Polymorphism, Method Overriding
Story: The Galaxy Mall in your city is one of the busiest shopping destinations. Every
weekend, the parking lot is packed with cars, bikes, and trucks. To streamline
operations, the mall decided to build an automated parking ticketing system.
Scenario Details:
1. Real-world Setting
○ The parking lot has different parking zones for cars, bikes, and trucks.
○ Each vehicle gets a ticket when entering.
○ The ticket contains:
■ Vehicle type
■ Vehicle number
■ Entry time
○ When the vehicle exits, the system calculates the parking fee based on:
■ Vehicle type
■ Total hours parked
2. Object-Oriented Structure
○ Superclass: Vehicle
■ Fields: vehicleNumber, entryTime
■ Method: calculateFee(exitTime) → overridden in
subclasses.
○ Subclasses:
■ Car — base fee ₹50 for first hour, ₹30 per extra hour.
■ Bike — base fee ₹20 for first hour, ₹10 per extra hour.
■ Truck — base fee ₹100 for first hour, ₹50 per extra hour.

3. How It Works
○ When a vehicle enters:
■ Create an object of the respective subclass (Car, Bike, or
Truck).
■ Record the entry time.
○ When a vehicle exits:
■ Call calculateFee(exitTime) for that vehicle.
■ Print ticket details and amount to be paid.

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
4. Example Run
Morning:
○ Car KA05AB1234 enters at 10:00 AM.
○ Bike KA05XY7890 enters at 11:15 AM.
○ Truck KA09TR5566 enters at 09:30 AM.
5. Evening exit:
○ Car exits at 1:30 PM → Fee = ₹50 + (2.5 hrs × ₹30) = ₹125.
○ Bike exits at 12:00 PM → Fee = ₹20 + (0.75 hrs rounded to 1 hr × ₹10) =
₹30.
○ Truck exits at 2:00 PM → Fee = ₹100 + (4.5 hrs × ₹50) = ₹325.
6. Why It’s Real-World
○ This is the same logic used in real mall parking systems like Central
Mall or Phoenix Marketcity, where charges depend on the type of
vehicle and duration of parking.
○ Using inheritance allows easy addition of new vehicle types in the future.

2. Data Structures & Algorithms
🟢 Easy
1. Bus Route Navigator
Concepts: LinkedList, Insertion, Deletion, Search
Story: You’re working with the city’s transport department to digitize bus route
management.
Currently, bus stops are written on paper charts, but the system needs to handle
frequent route changes — stops get added, removed, or rearranged based on traffic
conditions.
Scenario details:
● Each bus stop will be a node in a LinkedList.
● The LinkedList represents the order in which the bus travels.
● Insertion: A new bus stop is added if the city wants to introduce a detour or
service a new neighborhood.

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
● Deletion: A stop is removed if the route no longer passes there due to road
construction or low demand.
● Search: Passengers can check whether their desired stop is part of the route.
Example run:
● Initial route: Depot → Main Street → City Mall → Hospital → Airport
● City adds University Stop after City Mall.
● Later, removes the Hospital due to road closure.
● Passenger searches for Airport, system confirms it’s still in the route.
Why it’s real-world: Many public transport systems (like Delhi DTC, Bangalore BMTC)
dynamically change bus routes, and LinkedList makes insertion/removal operations
efficient compared to arrays.
🟡 Moderate
1. Attendance Marker
Concepts: Java DSA — 2D Arrays, Iteration, Search
Story Context - Imagine you are building an Attendance Tracking System for
“Sunrise Public School”. Teachers in this school want a digital logbook to replace their
manual attendance registers.
Instead of flipping through registers every month, they want an app where they can
quickly see:
● Whether a student was Present (P) or Absent (A) on a given day.
● How many days a student attended in a month.
● Which students have low attendance (< 75%).
Scenario Details
1. Real-world Setup
○ The school has 30 students in Class 10A.
○ The teacher takes attendance daily for 30 days in a month.
○ Attendance is marked as:
■ 1 → Present
■ 0 → Absent

2. Data Representation (Why 2D Array?)
○ Each row in the 2D array represents a student.
○ Each column represents a day of the month.

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
○ Example for 5 students over 5 days:
[ 1 0 1 1 1 ] → Student 1 (Absent on Day 2)
[ 1 1 1 0 1 ] → Student 2 (Absent on Day 4)
[ 0 0 1 1 1 ] → Student 3 (Absent on Day 1,2)
[ 1 1 1 1 1 ] → Student 4 (Perfect attendance)
[ 1 0 0 1 0 ] → Student 5 (Mostly absent)

3. Operations Needed
○ Mark attendance: Update the array for a given student and day.
○ Daily summary: Count how many students were present on a given day.
○ Monthly summary: Count total days present for each student.
○ Defaulter list: Identify students with < 75% attendance.
4. Example Run
○ Teacher marks attendance for Day 1 → Student 1 = Present,
Student 3 = Absent.
○ By Day 15, teacher wants to check:
■ “How many students came on Day 10?” → Count 1s in column 10.
■ “Did Student 5 attend more than 20 days?” → Count 1s in row 5.
■ “Which students have attendance < 22 days?” → Print their roll
numbers.
Why This Feels Real-World
● This is how many schools and colleges digitize attendance systems today
(sometimes using Excel or ERP software).
● The 2D array acts like a spreadsheet grid, making it easier to compute
attendance reports automatically.
● Teachers can also export this data for report cards or for sending warnings to
parents.

3. Collections, Generics, Streams
🟢 Easy
1. Simple Word Counter
Concepts: Map<String, Integer>, Stream API, Frequency Counting

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
Story Context - A news website wants to know which words are used most often in
their articles to understand trending topics. Instead of manually scanning articles, they
want an automatic word counter.
Scenario Details
1. Setup
○ The website stores articles in plain text (paragraphs).
○ Example article snippet:
"Sports bring people together. Sports inspire teamwork.
Sports create leaders."
2. Problem
● Editors want to know:
○ How many times “Sports” was mentioned?
○ Which word is most frequent?
○ Which words are rarely used?
3. Data Representation
● Use a Map<String, Integer> where:
○ Key → word
○ Value → count of occurrences
Example after processing:
Sports → 3
bring → 1
people → 1
together → 1
inspire → 1
teamwork → 1
create → 1
leaders → 1

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
4. Stream API Usage

○ Split text into words.
○ Normalize (lowercase, remove punctuation).
○ Use stream() + Collectors.toMap() or
Collectors.groupingBy() to count occurrences.

5. Outcome

○ Editors instantly see the most used keywords.
○ Helps them tag articles automatically (e.g., “sports”, “teamwork”).
○ Gives insight into trending content without manual effort.

🟡 Moderate
2. Online Survey Report Generator
Concepts: Collectors.groupingBy(), Aggregation, Averages
Story Context - A food delivery app conducts a customer satisfaction survey
after each order. They ask:
“How would you rate your experience (1–5)?”
Now, the management wants an automated survey report grouped by restaurant,
showing the average satisfaction score.
Scenario Details
1. Setup - Survey responses are stored as a list of objects:
class SurveyResponse {
String restaurantName;
int rating; // (1 to 5)
}
Example data:
PizzaHut → 4
PizzaHut → 5
KFC → 3
KFC → 4
Subway → 5

Pseudo-code Problems - Day 2 (Week 2)
Subway → 4
Subway → 5
2. Problem
○ Management wants to know:
■ Average rating per restaurant.
■ Which restaurant has the highest customer satisfaction?
■ Which one needs improvement?

3. Data Representation
○ Use
Collectors.groupingBy(SurveyResponse::getRestaurantNam
e, Collectors.averagingInt(SurveyResponse::getRating))
Example result:
PizzaHut → 4.5
KFC → 3.5
Subway → 4.67
4. Outcome
○ Managers see that Subway is doing great.
○ KFC has a lower rating and may need improvement in service.
○ Can auto-generate monthly reports for decision-making.